[api] Connected Condition - state_subscription_only flag (#5624)
OttoWinter/esphomedocs: content/components/api.md

    - logger.log: "API client disconnected!"
```

## Conditions

{{< anchor "api-connected_condition" >}}

### `api.connected` Condition

> This [Condition](/automations/actions#all-conditions) checks if at least one client is connected to the ESPHome

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This [Condition](/automations/actions#all-conditions) checks if at least one client is connected to the ESPHome native API.
```

native API. Please note `client` refers to any connection to the API, including Home Assistant, ESPHome's remote log viewer, and other API consumers.

Check if any client is connected:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+#### Configuration variables

- **state_subscription_only** (*Optional*, boolean): If enabled, only counts clients that have subscribed to entity tate updates. This filters out logger-only connections (such as `esphome logs` command), which can cause false ositives when waiting for Home Assistant. Defaults to `false`.

**Check if any client is connected:**
 ```

```yaml
on_...:
  if:
    condition:
      api.connected:
    then:
      - logger.log: Client is connected to API!
```

The lambda equivalent for this is `id(api_id).is_connected()`.

> Check if a client with state subscription (Home Assistant, Node-RED library) is connected:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Check if a client subscribed to entity states is connected (typically Home Assistant):**
```

```yaml
on_...:
  if:
    condition:
      api.connected:
        state_subscription_only: True
    then:

>       - logger.log: Client with state subscription is connected to API!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on_boot:
  - wait_until:
      condition:
        api.connected:
          state_subscription_only: true
  - logger.log: Home Assistant is connected!
  - homeassistant.event:
      event: esphome.device_booted
```

```

The lambda equivalent for this is `id(api_id).is_connected(true)`.

#### Configuration variables

- **state_subscription_only** (*Optional*, boolean): If enabled, the condition checks for clients with state subscription (Home Assistant, Node-RED library) only.

>   Defaults to `false`.

Reviewer: Since we don't know what Node Red addon devs might do in the future as its outside of our control, lets limit the scope to what we know we control and give a clearer explanation of what it does

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Use Cases:**
 
- Use `state_subscription_only: false` (default) to detect any API connection
- Use `state_subscription_only: true` when you need to ensure Home Assistant (or other connections that subscribe to states) is connected before sending events or calling services, preventing errors from logger-only connections
```
